#summary Overview of OFSE database tables

= Feed Engine Database Table Definitions =

The sections defines each database table in detail.

 * [http://code.google.com/p/open-source-feed-engine/wiki/TFeedType t_feed_type] - defines unique feed types.
 * [http://code.google.com/p/open-source-feed-engine/wiki/TDataSource t_data_source] - defines unique data sources.
 * [http://code.google.com/p/open-source-feed-engine/wiki/TFeedDirection t_feed_direction] - defines the two directions, inbound & outbound.
 * [http://code.google.com/p/open-source-feed-engine/wiki/TFeedProtocol t_feed_protocol] - defines the two protocols,  request & response.
 * [http://code.google.com/p/open-source-feed-engine/wiki/TFeed t_feed] - contains feed unique definitions for each unique feed file.
 * [http://code.google.com/p/open-source-feed-engine/wiki/TFeedGroup t_feed_group] - defines definitions for a group of t_feed definitions.
 * [http://code.google.com/p/open-source-feed-engine/wiki/TFeedFileState t_feed_file_state] - defines the different states of a given row in t_feed_file. 
 * [http://code.google.com/p/open-source-feed-engine/wiki/TFeedFile t_feed_file] - contains the information to manage the life cycle of a given feed file.
 * [http://code.google.com/p/open-source-feed-engine/wiki/TFeedJobState t_feed_job_state] - defines the different states of a given row in t_feed_job.
 * [http://code.google.com/p/open-source-feed-engine/wiki/TFeedJob t_feed_job] - contains the information to manage the life cycle of a given feed job.
 * [http://code.google.com/p/open-source-feed-engine/wiki/TFeedPhaseStats t_feed_phase_stats] - contains statistics on each phase of a feed file run.
 * [http://code.google.com/p/open-source-feed-engine/wiki/TCheckPoint t_check_point] - contains the base information to check point a feed file run.
 * [http://code.google.com/p/open-source-feed-engine/wiki/TFeedQueue t_feed_queue] - contains information for monitoring a queue of feeds. 
 * [http://code.google.com/p/open-source-feed-engine/wiki/TErrorLog t_error_log] - accessed by phases to store feed warnings and errors.
 * [http://code.google.com/p/open-source-feed-engine/wiki/TFeedUser t_feed_user] -  contains information for each user allowed access to the OSFE administration console. 
 * [http://code.google.com/p/open-source-feed-engine/wiki/TFeedRole t_feed_role] - defines user role which determines the level of access of a given user.
 