#summary Installation Tutorial

= Steps To Setup OSFE =

1) download osfe-bin-1.0-with-dependencies.tar.gz
   from: http://code.google.com/p/open-source-feed-engine/downloads/list

2) Create the environment variable, OSFE_WORK, that will point the location of the OSFE home directory.
 
  Example: OSFE_WORK=~/osfe.

3) Extract osfe-bin-1.0-with-dependencies.tar.gz to a directory of your choosing (e.g. temp).
   
  Example: tar zxf osfe-bin-1.0-with-dependencies.tar.gz

4) Install MySQL
   
   You will need to download and install MySQL database, 
   if you have not done so already.

5) Login into mysql and create an OSFE database:
   
   mysql> create database osfedb;

6) Where you extracted OSFE, go to the following subdirectory: 
  
   /install/database/mysql/schema/ddl/ver1.0
   
   Run the following three mysql commands using the 
   appropriate username and password:
 
   mysql -u??? -p??? -Dosfedb < create.ddl
   mysql -u??? -p??? -Dosfedb < populate.sql
   mysql -u??? -p??? -Dosfedb < demodata.sql

7) Where you extracted OSFE, go to the following subdirectory:

    /install/database/mysql/config/common/

   Edit file config.properties. If necessary, modify the following 
   properties to match your mysql username and password:

   osfe.db.username=root
   osfe.db.password=admin

***** SETUP UP OSFE TO RUN DEMO FEEDS  *****
   
   This next step will create the OSFE directory
   structure under $OSFE_WORK.
   
   NOTE! The following step will not work properly if you have 
                 not successfully completed steps 1 through 7.
   
   Where you extracted OSFE, go to the subdirectory,
   
  osfe-examples and run script, osfe_demo.sh.

    Example: 
        cd osfe-examples
        chmod +x *.sh
        ./osfe_demo.sh

   If the script executed correctly, you should have the 
   following subdirectories under $OSFE_WORK:
 
    /config
    /feeds
    /logs
    /partnerConfig

    Congratulations! You should now be able to run some 
    demo feeds using OSFE.  So, what have we've done?
  
What just happened?

1) OSFE uses a MySql database to manager the life cycle of processing a feed file, so you created a database, osfedb.

2) The script loaded specific database tables with meta data that OSFE requires to run properly. Take a look at the content of the following tables:
  
   - t_feed_direction
   - t_feed_file_state
   - t_feed_job_state
   - t_feed_protocol
   - t_feed_role
   - t_feed_user

3) The script then loaded specific tables with program data to define feed definitions. Take a look at the content of the following tables:

    -t_data_source
    -t_feed_type
    -t_group
    -t_feed

4) OSFE uses feed documents that tell it how to run a specific type of feed and what Java classes to use.  Take a look at two different feed documents: 
   
  $OSFE_WORK/partnerConfig/feed/acme/testd/request/config.xml
  $OSFE_WORK/partnerConfig/feed/acme/testf/request/config.xml
     
The document under, /testd/request/config.xml, tells OSFE how to process a delimited feed file with the following format:

  15020080420,150,20080420-05:04:49
  1000000,Last1,First1,A,71
  1000001,Last2,First2,B,72
  1000002,Last3,First3,C,76
  ...
  15020080420,150,20080420-05:04:49,50000

The document under, /testf/request/config.xml, tells OSFE how to process a fixed feed file with the following format:

   2822008072728220080727-08:07:05
   1000000 Last1          First1         A67 
   1000001 Last2          First2         B97 
   1000002 Last3          First3         C94 
   ...
   7922008072779220080727-08:07:06100000  

5) OSFE determines where to look for feeds to process by retrieving a feed definition in table t_feed, with a given feed Id.  In table, t_feed the column, feed_directory contains the path where the feed directories for the given feed definition are located. The structure for inbound feeds will contain the following sub directories (archive, download, failed, incoming, preprocess, rejected, temp & workarea). OSFE will look in the inbound subdirectory for feeds to process.  

The script has loaded a set of delimited and fixed feed files for OSFE to process.  Look under the following directories:

  $OSFE_WORK/feed/acme/qagen/testd/request/incoming
  $OSFE_WORK/feed/acme/qagen/textf/request/incoming

***** RUN YOUR FIRST OSFE FEED *****
  
  Processing a feed is fairly simple. You simply need to 
  know the name of the feed you would like to process and 
  it's feed definition Id.  Lets process a feed!

  > cd osfe-examples
  > ./feed_engine.sh acme_qagen_testd_request acme_qagen_testd_request_20080728100700.txt

  What just happended? 
  
  If you have setup of OSFE correctly, OSFE processed
  a delimited feed file. The feed file contains 100,000 
  rows of student test scores. For each student a grade
  must be determined and the class average must be calculated.

  OSFE used the feedId, to lookup the feed definition. The
  feed definition contains the location of the feed configuration
  document and the location of the feed file directory structure.

  The feed document contains the list of phases that OSFE will 
  use to process each row of data in the feed file. One of the 
  phases, GradingPhase, determines a students grade. Another phase, 
  StatsPhase, calculates the class average.
 
  To see the source files, download osfe-1.0-src-tar.gz.
  Under directory osfe-examples, look for the following classes:
   
  com.qagen.osfe.examples.acme.phases.GradingPhase.java
  com.qagen.osfe.examples.acme.phases.StatPhase.java

  How did OSFE manage the lifecycle in the OSFE databas osfedb?
  Take a look at the following tables in osfedb:

  t_feed_file
  t_fee_job
  t_feed_phase_stats
  t_fee_checkpoint

***** PROCESS MANY FEEDS AT ONE TIME *****
  
  OSFE can process many feeds at one time.  Run the following script:

  > cd /osfe-examples
  > ./process_feeds.sh 

  What just happend?  

  A class, com.qagen.osfe.examples.acme.demo.ProcessFeeds.java,
  retrieved all of the delimited and fixed feed files and launched
  each of them one right after the other in multiple FeedEngine 
  threads. Thus, each feed was being processed and managed by OSFE
  simultaneously.  Now, take a look at the following tables in 
  osfedb:

  t_feed_file
  t_fee_job
  t_feed_phase_stats
  t_fee_checkpoint

***** That's All Folks! *****